== Netsukuku and ICT infrastructure in the Developing World ==

{{{

Netsukuku network: enabled self-made and self-sustained ICT infrastructure
for developing countries.

The end-users, in order to connect their PC to the rest of the World
through the Internet, have to make a subscription with an Internet Operator.
The Domain Names, as well, are the unique way by which a network attached
device (which could consist of a computer, a file server, a network storage
device, a fax machine, a cable modem, etc.) is known on the Internet,
and are literally sold through the centralised system of the Domain
Name System (DNS).  Netsukuku, an Open Source software, downloadable
from http://netsukuku.freaknet.org makes possible the creation of a
new distributed global Net, expandable to an unlimited number of users,
alternative, independent and totally apart from the Internet.  
The Netsukuku particular routing system, created by some members of the
"Freaknet" group of Catania (Italy), allows the Net to be self-sustained,
thanks to all the Net users, that share a small part of their own PC
resources. Anybody has the chance to join the Net and, at the same time, to
let other users do the same.
In those countries and areas of the globe where Internet facilities are still
not available, a public Net can be created and developed in a very simple way
(i.e. through a wi-fi coverage), without depending on any Internet Operators.
In the same way, all the contents holder will be able to share any documents
simply from their PC, since a maximum of 256 hostnames can be recorded and
automatically supported by each PC (i.e. node of the Net).  
Last but not least, inside Netsukuku Net all the users will have the chance to
get through the Internet: in fact any user can get the connectivity to
Internet from other users that share and devolve into the net the bandwidth
they don't use at the moment.
Netsukuku routing system differs from all the other protocols and algorithms:
the existing dynamic schemes are solely utilised to create small and medium
nets.  
The routers of Internet are also managed by different protocols as the OSPF,
the RIP or the BGP, all based on different classical algorithms. 
These algorithms are able to find out the best path to reach a node in the
net, but require a very high waste of CPU and memory. That's why inside
Internet, all the routers are powerful computers specifically dedicated to
this purpose.  On the contrary, when a node hooks to Netsukuku, the net
automatically rewrites itself, while all the other nodes, using a very small
part of the CPU and of the memory resource (a few kb), recognised which are
the fastest and more efficient routes to  communicate with the new arrived.
The nodes don't have privileges or limitations: when compared to other nodes,
they are part of the net and give their contribution to its expansion and
efficiency. The more they increase in number the more the net grows and
becomes stable. In Netsukuku there is no any difference between private and
public nets and talking about LAN become meaningless.

-CLazop
